---
layout: post
title: "Remote CPU Server On 9front"
date: 2021-5-19 08:47:21 -0400
categories: plan9
tags: plan9
---

I have been recently learning about [9front](http://9front.org/), a modern distribution of plan9.

I installed it on my Thinkpad x220 laptop. Since my laptop uses a Realtek wifi card, I did not get wifi, so I had to do some weird ethernet connection things with my desktop. Needless to say, I got it working by adding Ethernet out of my desktop with NetworkManager on Linux.

`Amavect` on irc ***very*** kindly walked me through the process, so I want to have it here for my future self as well as anyone why wanders by with the same question.

To start we need to specify ourselves as the auth server.
This is done by editing /lib/ndb/local database.
Here is mine:
```ndb
#
#  files comprising the database, use as many as you like, see ndb(6)
#
database=
	file=/net/ndb
	file=/lib/ndb/local
	file=/lib/ndb/common

#
#  entries defining the dns root.  these will be overridden by any
#  authentic info obtained from the root.
#
dom=
	ns=A.ROOT-SERVERS.NET
	ns=B.ROOT-SERVERS.NET
	ns=C.ROOT-SERVERS.NET
	ns=D.ROOT-SERVERS.NET
	ns=E.ROOT-SERVERS.NET
	ns=F.ROOT-SERVERS.NET
	ns=G.ROOT-SERVERS.NET
	ns=H.ROOT-SERVERS.NET
	ns=I.ROOT-SERVERS.NET
	ns=J.ROOT-SERVERS.NET
	ns=K.ROOT-SERVERS.NET
	ns=L.ROOT-SERVERS.NET
	ns=M.ROOT-SERVERS.NET

#
#  because the public demands the name localsource
#
ip=127.0.0.1 sys=localhost dom=localhost

sys=cirno ether=f0def16da6f3
ipnet=dojo ip=10.42.0.0 ipmask=255.255.255.0
	ipgw=10.42.0.1
	authdom=dojo
	auth=cirno
	cpu=cirno
	fs=cirno
```
My "hostname" is `cirno`, my network name is called `dojo` and `10.42.0.1` is my NetworkManager dhcp server thing. My ip on my Thinkpad is `10.42.0.61`.
I had to get this file right and check it with `netaudit` to make sure everything worked. Then I needed to change `service=cpu` in `/n/9fat/plan9.ini` in order to get `auth/keyfs` running by default and listening on port `567` for the cpu server.

Then I needed to be still in the `auth/keyfs` daemon namespace and make a password in `secstore` with `auth/changeuser`.

If the user was not default, I needed to install the user to the fileserver.

Then reboot!

In the boot menu here is what I put in:
```
authid: glenda
authdom: dojo
secstore key: <password for glenda>
password: <password for glenda>
```
Then we have a shell.

I needed to run `ip/ipconfig` to make the network work in the shell (i think!).

Then I could use
```
drawterm -h 10.42.0.61 -u glenda
```
on my linux machine with `auth[10.42.0.61]` left blank and the glenda password as the password.
Then run `rio` and I am in!!!

Hooray!

Hopefully my future self thanks me for this, and I owe a huge thanks to Amavect for helping me with this. The next steps is to figure out how to run rio on start (like `service=terminal`) even when `service=cpu`. `Amavect` said this was doable, and had something to with "services".

For completeness, here is my `/n/9fat/plan9.ini` file:
```
bootfile=9pc64
bootargs=local!/dev/sdE0/fscache
mouseport=ps2
monitor=vesa
vgasize=1366x768x32
service=cpu
```

Also, these fqa links deal with the same things that I talked about in this post. (I wanted to put everything in one place)

http://fqa.9front.org/fqa7.html#7.5.1
http://fqa.9front.org/fqa7.html#7.4
